# Sale-Performance-By-Product-Category-Overtime
This is my first Excel project. Extraction, Data cleaning and Visualization were done using Excel. This project is in accordance with Quantum Analytics learning program. 

## Introduction;
I'm working as a data analyst for a retail company, the manager has assigned me the task of representing the sale performance of the product categories, revenue generated by each product categories  of the company overtime to the management. The goal is to provide a clear and informative visual representation for the company's executives during their yearly meeting review.

## Project Objective; 
The executive are perticularly interested in understanding which product categories have shown the most growth and which one might need attention.

## Data Sourcing:
The dataset was gotten from Quantum Analytics NG.

## Data Validation 
Data validation applied accordingly.

## User Interface And Navigation
Chart are locked to prevent unintentional distortion while pivot slicers and legend icons unlocked.

## Dataset Overview
- The dataset contains the sale of four (4) categories of product and their ratings overtime.
  
## Problem Statement;
  - To gatter insights on how the retail company is performing as regards to sales performance of product categories, i was directed to provide answer to the following questions:
  1. Total revenue generated by each product categories
  2. Total amount generated overtime
  3. Sale comparism overtime
  4. Average rating comparism overtime

## Data Transformation;
- The data is a cleaned dataset, So the proces i took in other to provide answers to the above questions are:
1. I Structured the dataset into table
2. Loaded the dataset to pivot table to create report via pivot charts
3. Designed my dashboard with the reports and most important metrics

## Data Analysis/Visualization;




